.\" Man page for spectra-backend
.TH SPECTRA-BACKEND 1 "2026-02-22" "Spectra 0.1.0" "Spectra Manual"
.SH NAME
spectra-backend \- GPU-accelerated scientific plotting daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spectra-backend
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B spectra-backend
is the IPC daemon for the Spectra plotting library. It manages figure state,
coordinates rendering agents, and communicates with Python and C++ clients
over a Unix domain socket.
.PP
In typical usage, the backend is launched automatically by the Python
\fBspectra\fR package or the C++ \fBApp\fR class. Manual invocation is
only needed for debugging or custom deployments.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-socket " " \fIpath\fR
Listen on the specified Unix domain socket path instead of the default.
.TP
.BR \-\-version ", " \-v
Print the version number and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Show usage information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SPECTRA_SOCKET
Override the default socket path. Equivalent to \fB\-\-socket\fR.
.TP
.B XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
If set, the default socket is
\fI$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/spectra/spectra.sock\fR.
Otherwise, \fI/tmp/spectra\-$USER/spectra.sock\fR is used.
.TP
.B SPECTRA_DEBUG_LOG
If set to a file path, backend stderr is redirected to that file
when auto-launched by the Python client.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/spectra/spectra.sock
Default Unix domain socket (Linux).
.TP
.I /tmp/spectra-$USER/spectra.sock
Fallback socket path when XDG_RUNTIME_DIR is not set.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution or \fB\-\-version\fR/\fB\-\-help\fR.
.TP
.B 1
Failed to bind the socket or other startup error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR spectra-window (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Spectra contributors.
.SH LICENSE
MIT License.
